Support export (#16969)
pingcap/docs: tidb-cloud/serverless-export.md

---

> title: TiDB Serverless Export (Beta)

Reviewer: Since it's a how-to guide, how about starting with a verb in the title, like that of https://docs.pingcap.com/tidbcloud/backup-and-restore-serverless. A noun title sounds like a concept topic.
```suggestion
title: Export Data from TiDB Serverless (Beta)
```

Reviewer 2: Currently, the export can also be done via mysqldump and Dumpling. Only exporting data using "TiDB Serverless Export" is in beta.😂

summary: Learn how to export data from TiDB Serverless clusters.
---

> # TiDB Serverless Export (Beta)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Export Data from TiDB Serverless (Beta)
```

TiDB Serverless Export (Beta) is a service that enables you to export data from a TiDB Serverless cluster to local storage or an external storage service. You can use the exported data for backup, migration, data analysis, or other purposes.

While you can also export data using tools such as [mysqldump](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/mysqldump.html) and TiDB [Dumpling](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/dev/dumpling-overview), TiDB Serverless Export offers a more convenient and efficient way to export data from a TiDB Serverless cluster. It brings the following benefits:

> - Convenience: the export service provides a simple and easy-to-use way to export data from a TiDB Serverless cluster, eliminating the need for additional tools or resources.

Reviewer 3: One more advantage is you don't have to take care of memory allcoation. For mysqldump and dumpling, it's easy to exceed memory limitation, especially for free tier the limitation is only 256MiB.

- Isolation: the export service uses separate computing resources, ensuring isolation from the resources used by your online services.
- Consistency: the export service ensures the consistency of the exported data without causing locks, which does not affect your online services.

## Features

This section describes the features of TiDB Serverless Export.

### Export location

You can export data to local storage or [Amazon S3](https://aws.amazon.com/s3/).

> **Note:**
>

> > If the size of the data to be exported is large, it is recommended that you export it to Amazon S3.

Author: 100GB

> > If the size of the data to be exported is large(more than 100 GiB), it is recommended that you export it to Amazon S3.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> If the size of the data to be exported is large (more than 100 GiB), it is recommended that you export it to Amazon S3.
```

**Local storage**

Exporting data to local storage has the following limitations:

- Exporting multiple databases to local storage at the same time is not supported.
- Exported data is saved in the stashing area and will expire after two days. You need to download the exported data in time.

> - TiDB Cloud offers 250 GiB of storage space in the stashing area for each organization per region. If the storage space is full, you will not be able to export data to local storage.

Author: User can do nothing now. 
We may adjust our strategy according to the users' feedback in the future, but now user can't do anything

> - TiDB Cloud offers 250 GiB of storage space in the stashing area for each organization per region. If the storage space is full, you will not be able to export data to local storage.

Reviewer 2: Two more questions:
- Is there a way for users to check the space usage in the stashing area? 
- Once the storage space is full and users export data to local storage, what messages will be returned?

> - TiDB Cloud offers 250 GiB of storage space in the stashing area for each organization per region. If the storage space is full, you will not be able to export data to local storage.

Author: users can not check the space usage in the stashing area. 
The following message will be returned once space is full:
```
The storage limit of stashing area has been exceeded. Please contact us if you need more quota.
```

> - TiDB Cloud offers 250 GiB of storage space in the stashing area for each organization per region. If the storage space is full, you will not be able to export data to local storage.

Reviewer 3: I'd suggest to delete this limitation now. I don't want to expose the accurate storage size to users. And definitely we need to figure out a way to clean the storage soon.

**Amazon S3**

> To export data to Amazon S3, you need to provide an [access key](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_credentials_access-keys.html) for your S3 bucket and make sure the access key has the necessary permissions for your S3 bucket. It is recommended that you create a new bucket with full S3 access.

Reviewer 2: Can we list the required permissions? 

For example
https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/dev/sql-statement-import-into
![image](https://github.com/pingcap/docs/assets/79440533/b7ca6fa9-1d1b-4088-9b7c-7107d324b963)

Author: ok， I will add them.

> To export data to Amazon S3, you need to provide an [access key](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_credentials_access-keys.html) for your S3 bucket. Make sure the access key has the read and write access to your S3 bucket, including at least these permissions: `s3:PutObject`, and `s3:ListBucket`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To export data to Amazon S3, you need to provide an [access key](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_credentials_access-keys.html) for your S3 bucket. Make sure the access key has read and write access to your S3 bucket, including at least these permissions: `s3:PutObject` and `s3:ListBucket`.
```

> To export data to Amazon S3, you need to provide an [access key](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_credentials_access-keys.html) for your S3 bucket. Please make sure the access key has the read and write access for your S3 bucket, including at least these permissions: `s3:PutObject`, and `s3:ListBucket`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To export data to Amazon S3, you need to provide an [access key](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_credentials_access-keys.html) for your S3 bucket. Make sure the access key has the read and write access to your S3 bucket, including at least these permissions: `s3:PutObject`, and `s3:ListBucket`.
```

### Data filtering

You can filter data by specifying the database and table you want to export. If you specify a database without specifying a table, all tables in that specified database will be exported. If you do not specify a database when you export data to Amazon S3, all databases in the cluster will be exported.

> **Note:**
>
> You must specify the database when you export data to local storage.

### Data formats

> You can export data in the following formats:

Reviewer 3: I think we should explain more about the exported formats. https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/dumpling-overview#format-of-exported-files

- `SQL` (default): export data in SQL format.
- `CSV`: export data in CSV format.

### Data compression

You can compress the exported data using the following algorithms:

- `gzip` (default): compress the exported data with gzip.
- `snappy`: compress the exported data with snappy.
- `zstd`: compress the exported data with zstd.
- `none`: do not compress the exported data.

### Cancel export

You can cancel an export task that is in the running state.

## Examples

Currently, you can manage export tasks using [TiDB Cloud CLI](/tidb-cloud/cli-reference.md).

### Export data to local storage

> 1. Create an export task that specifies the database and table you want to export:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Create an export task to local storage that specifies the database and table you want to export:
```

> You can cancel an export job that is in the running state.
> 
> ## Examples
> 
> Currently, you can manage export jobs using [TiDB Cloud CLI](/tidb-cloud/cli-reference.md).
> 
> ### Export data to local storage
> 
> 1. Create an export job that specifies the database and table you want to export:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can cancel an export task that is in the running state.

## Examples

Currently, you can manage export tasks using [TiDB Cloud CLI](/tidb-cloud/cli-reference.md).

### Export data to local storage

1. Create an export task that specifies the database and table you want to export:
```

>    ```shell
>    ticloud serverless export create -c <cluster-id> --database <database> --table <table>
>    ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ```shell
    ticloud serverless export create -c <cluster-id> --database <database> --table <table>
    ```
```

    You will get an export ID from the output.

2. After the export is successful, download the exported data to your local storage:

>    ```shell
>    ticloud serverless export download -c <cluster-id> -e <export-id>
>    ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ```shell
    ticloud serverless export download -c <cluster-id> -e <export-id>
    ```
```

### Export data to Amazon S3

   ```shell
   ticloud serverless export create -c <cluster-id> --bucket-uri <bucket-uri> --access-key-id <access-key-id> --secret-access-key <secret-access-key>
   ```

### Export with the CSV format

   ```shell
   ticloud serverless export create -c <cluster-id> --file-type CSV
   ```

### Export the whole database

   ```shell
   ticloud serverless export create -c <cluster-id> --database <database>
   ```

### Export with snappy compression

   ```shell
   ticloud serverless export create -c <cluster-id> --compress snappy
   ```

### Cancel an export task

   ```shell
   ticloud serverless export cancel -c <cluster-id> -e <export-id>

>    ```

Reviewer: For these sections, no need to indent the code blocks. Please delete the extra spaces.

> ### Cancel an export job
> 
>    ```shell
>    ticloud serverless export cancel -c <cluster-id> -e <export-id>
>    ```
> 
> ## Pricing
> 
> The export service is free during the beta period. You only need to pay for the [Request Units (RUs)](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-glossary.md#request-unit) generated during the export process of successful or canceled jobs. For failed export jobs, you will not be charged.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Cancel an export task

   ```shell
   ticloud serverless export cancel -c <cluster-id> -e <export-id>
   ```

## Pricing

The export service is free during the beta period. You only need to pay for the [Request Units (RUs)](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-glossary.md#request-unit) generated during the export process of successful or canceled tasks. For failed export tasks, you will not be charged.
```

While you can also export data using tools such as [mysqldump](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/mysqldump.html) and TiDB [Dumpling](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/dev/dumpling-overview), TiDB Serverless Export offers a more convenient and efficient way to export data from a TiDB Serverless cluster. It brings the following benefits:

- Convenience: the export service provides a simple and easy-to-use way to export data from a TiDB Serverless cluster, eliminating the need for additional tools or resources.
- Isolation: the export service uses separate computing resources, ensuring isolation from the resources used by your online services.
- Consistency: the export service ensures the consistency of the exported data without causing locks, which does not affect your online services.

## Features

This section describes the features of TiDB Serverless Export.

### Export location

You can export data to local storage or [Amazon S3](https://aws.amazon.com/s3/).

> **Note:**
>

> > If the size of the data to be exported is large(more than 100 GiB), it is recommended that you export it to Amazon S3.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> If the size of the data to be exported is large (more than 100 GiB), it is recommended that you export it to Amazon S3.
```

**Local storage**

Exporting data to local storage has the following limitations:

- Exporting multiple databases to local storage at the same time is not supported.
- Exported data is saved in the stashing area and will expire after two days. You need to download the exported data in time.
- TiDB Cloud offers 250 GiB of storage space in the stashing area for each organization per region. If the storage space is full, you will not be able to export data to local storage.

**Amazon S3**

> To export data to Amazon S3, you need to provide an [access key](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_credentials_access-keys.html) for your S3 bucket. Please make sure the access key has the read and write access for your S3 bucket, including at least these permissions: `s3:PutObject`, and `s3:ListBucket`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To export data to Amazon S3, you need to provide an [access key](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_credentials_access-keys.html) for your S3 bucket. Make sure the access key has read and write access for your S3 bucket, including at least these permissions: `s3:PutObject` and `s3:ListBucket`.
```

- Exported data is saved in the stashing area and will expire after two days. You need to download the exported data in time.
- If the storage space of stashing area is full, you will not be able to export data to local storage.

**Amazon S3**

To export data to Amazon S3, you need to provide an [access key](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_credentials_access-keys.html) for your S3 bucket. Make sure the access key has read and write access for your S3 bucket, including at least these permissions: `s3:PutObject` and `s3:ListBucket`.

### Data filtering

You can filter data by specifying the database and table you want to export. If you specify a database without specifying a table, all tables in that specified database will be exported. If you do not specify a database when you export data to Amazon S3, all databases in the cluster will be exported.

> **Note:**
>
> You must specify the database when you export data to local storage.

### Data formats

You can export data in the following formats:

- `SQL` (default): export data in SQL format.
- `CSV`: export data in CSV format.

The schema and data are exported according to the following naming conventions:

> | item            | not compressed                           | compressed                                          |
> |-----------------|------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------|
> | database schema | {database}-schema-create.sql             | {database}-schema-create.sql.{compress}             |
> | table schema    | {database}.{table}-schema.sql            | {database}.{table}-schema.sql.{compress}            |
> | data            | {database}.{table}.{0001}.{sql&#124;csv} | {database}.{table}.{0001}.{sql&#124;csv}.{compress} |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Item            | Not compressed                           | Compressed                                          |
|-----------------|------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------|
| Database schema | {database}-schema-create.sql             | {database}-schema-create.sql.{compression-type}             |
| Table schema    | {database}.{table}-schema.sql            | {database}.{table}-schema.sql.{compression-type}            |
| Data            | {database}.{table}.{0001}.{sql&#124;csv} | {database}.{table}.{0001}.{sql&#124;csv}.{compression-type} |
```

- `SQL` (default): export data in SQL format.
- `CSV`: export data in CSV format.

> Then the schema and data will be exported in the following naming rules:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The schema and data are exported according to the following naming conventions:
```
